# NCI GitHub Actions Operationalization
Product teams across NCI aim to make use of new tooling introduced to the enterprise under the current GitHub Enterprise offering to deploy cloud-hosted applications. As an alternative to Jenkins, GitHub Actions is a continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) platform that allows automation of build, test, and deployment pipeline processes. 
### The Challenge
While GitHub Actions is an option for product teams within CBIIT, the enterprise needs to determine the path forward with operationalizing the service. Bringing GitHub Actions into CBIITs operational support scope requires governance and process definition. Product Development teams and Operations teams must have a clear picture of responsibilities and process that are in alignment with organizational policy, particularly as it relates to least privilege and separation of duties. 
### The Objective
Product Development teams want to understand the operational team's perspective in what needs to be done to adopt GitHub Actions as a CI/CD product under the support model. The approach is to allow Product Development teams to perform the research and validate a concept to recommend and allow for feedback from operational teams to determine if the model needs adjustment. Both Development and Operational teams must work together to streamline the adoption process.
### The Scope
This discussion is scoped to how code and infrastructure is built and deployed across environments with regard to tooling. Our attempt is not to change policies, level of privilege, or bypass existing procedures. The discussion is framed around how CBIIT can operationalize a new and available tool, what is proposed with regard to personnel responsibily, and how the proposition aligns with NCI policy.
### The Concept
